WEB API : Application Programming Interface. Is a a Microsoft Framework for building Services on the internet based on HTTP

- Helps in creating RESTful services to be consumed by a variety of clients viz.
  - Browsers
  - Desktops/Laptops (applns.)
  - Mobiles
  - IoT's  etc..

Rest : Representational State Transfer, a architectural pattern for exchange of data over distributed environment. 
-Works on a client server arch., where client and server can be from different platforms
-Works with the help of Http Verbs
   
1. HttpGet - Request for a resource
2. httpPost - Adding a new Resource
3. HttpPut - Updating all props./data of the current resource
4. Httppatch - Updating select few prop./data " "
5. HttpDelete - Either a soft delete that involves a patch verb for updating the status of a column
                Hard delete will remove the current resource permanently

REST has constraints as below :

1. Client Server : Separation of concern. Client interacts with the server using URI

2. Stateless constraint : Communication between client and server is stateless, meaning the server never stores any data about the client on the server. Client would pass on few identity information to the server to get the response. Every request is treated independently by the server.

3. Cachable Constraint: Less frequently changed resources of the server can be cached so that the rendering of the request of the cached resource can be made easily

4. Uniform Interface Constraint : specifies that there be an uniform interface between client and server (Http verbs, that tells the server what to do with the resource)

5. Content Negotiation : States that the client should have the ability to decide in which format they want the response (xml/json)

6. Layered System : With REST we can use a layered system, where we can deploy the API in one server, have the data in another, have other services like Authentication, Payment etc on another server. 


Testing the Restful API's include a test environment/client Tool viz.

Postman, Fiddler,Swagger etc..

Install SwashBuckle to work with swagger



